The women’s buffalo jump
One day the chief of the women was with the other women in the camp. She told the other women to go back to their tipis and get ready. She told them to braid their hair, to tie their hair up. She told them to put on their good clothes. Everyone was going to get married that day.
The women lived at the bottom (of the buffalo jump). The men lived at the top. They all lived seperately from each other. The women went back to their tipis to get ready. At the top, the men were also getting ready. That day, everyone was going to get married.
The chief of the women didn’t go back to her lodge. She went around cleaning. She began to cook. They were getting ready for the celebrations. When the women had finished combing their hair and putting on their good clothes, they went back to the chief of the women. They told her, “you must go back up to the top of the hill first, pick someone, and get married.”
She saw herself and realised she didn’t have good clothes on. She looked really dirty. Her clothes were dirty. And her hair was amiss. She didn’t look like a bride. She knew that she had to go up to the top of the hill first. So away she went to the top of the hill.
The men waited to see who would be married. The chief of the women went up to the top of the hill as well. When she arrived, she saw all the men standing in a line. The woman looked at all of them.
She picked her partner. When she stepped out, she saw Náápi. She
was going to pick Náápi.
Náápi is the trickster. He’s mean, and stingy, and greedy. He had pale skin. He had blue eyes. He had a very nice fur cap. He was very well groomed. She went to pick him. He felt so bad about how she looked. He didn’t want her as a bride. She didn’t look like anyone of importance. He stepped back. He hid behind the other men.
She was offended by what happened. She ran down the hill. She told the rest of the women, “There is a man standing at the top of the hill. His fur cap is very nice. He has a pale face. He has blue eyes. He is nicely dressed. Whatever you do, don’t pick him!” The woman went back into her lodge.
The women were taking turns going up to the top of the hill. When the women came back down, they were married. And Náápi was getting anxious. He really liked all the women. He really wanted a wife. He started to get really mad. No one was even looking at him. And when everything was over, there were hardly any more men.
The chief of the women emerged from her tipi. This time she was dressed really nicely. Her clothes were all beaded. She looked really beautiful. And she too went up to the top of the hill. When Náápi saw her, he said, “Forget everyone else! This is the one I want! I’ve been waiting such a long time for her.” He didn’t even realise it was the same woman.
So he approached her. He was trying to get her to look at him. But she didn’t want to meet him. She and her partner picked each other and they went back down the hill. That afternoon, Náápi was standing alone at the top of the hill. Nobody had picked him.
He heard all the people laughing. Everyone was having a good time. They were eating and dancing. They were all having fun. He began to shake in anger. In his anger, he shook so hard he turned into a pine tree.
